# The plugins

## What’s a plugin?

To get started, go and see the plugins that are already present by default in WordPress.

Go to the `plugins` tab.

Plugins are code tips, which allow you to add features to its Wordpress theme. There are thousands of them, developed by amateurs or pros to help the community. 

Some are free, some partially paid, and some totally paid. 

Some are small plugins easy to take in hand, others require developer skills and dive into the documentation in order to be able to best fit your project.

___

### Basic Plugins

Among small plugins to make your life easier, I advise you to install **Advanced Custom Fields (ACF)**. 
This allows you to create any type of field in your CMS and retrieve it easily in the theme with `get_field();`
 The Pro version, with all possible fields, is paid.

There are other extensions available around ACF, here are some of them : 

- **ACF to Rest API**

- **ACF: Image Crop Add-on**,  to cut out uploaded images.

- **ACF Columns**, to arrange the column fields in the client back part.

- **ACF User Role Field Setting**, to hide fields for certain user types while editing.

**CPT UI**  allows you to create quickly different types of posts or categories. 

**Safe SVG** To download SVG.

**SEOPress** for your reference optimization.

___

### Big fat plugins

There are small plugins that are easy to take charge, then there are big plugins which will generate their own tables in the DB and their PHP class. Learn to master these plugins once you understand how a Wordpress theme works.  

Examples :
- **WooCommerce**,  the most popular plugin on WP to create an e-commerce site.
- **The Events Calendar** to manage events. 

---

[07. Settings](07.settings.md)
